README.md, before:

# Python Job Web Crawler

Looking for work stinks. Scouring websites for job postings is time-consuming and repetitive. This Python-based web crawler is designed to visit a list of specified online career pages that and search for specific keywords, in my case, for front-end related jobs.

This web crawler was developed with ChatGPT, with prompts and guidance provided by me.

note: This script is not perfect. Confirm that it works on your list of urls by first using keywords that do appear on the sites you're searching.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Python3: https://www.python.org/downloads/
- Google Chrome
- ChromeDriver: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/chromedriver/get-started

### Installation
Clone the repo and navigate into the directory:

```
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/job-keyword-web-crawler.git
cd job-keyword-web-crawler
```

Install the necessary Python libraries:
```
pip3 install selenium webdriver_manager beautifulsoup4
```

### Create careerPages.py
The list of career pages to visit is stored in `careerPages.py`.
Create a file named `careerPages.py` in the same directory as your script. 

```
touch careerPages.py
```

This file contain the list of websites you want to crawl. 

Below is a sample `careerPages.py`. Replace the placeholder urls with your own list.

```
careerPages = [
    'https://great-company.com/careers',
    'https://we-value-work-life-balance.com/jobs',
    'https://not-making-the-world-a-worse-place.com/joinus',
    'https:/bird-watching-and-forest-bathing.com/openings'
    # Add more websites as needed
]
```

If you'd like to keep your list of career pages to yourself, confirm that the file has been added to your `.gitignore` to prevent it from being included in version control.

## Running the Script

Using the terminal, run the script:

```
python3 python-job-crawler.py
```
The script will start and print messages indicating the progress, including which websites were crawled and whether any keywords were found.

Commit message:

chromedriver path is explicitly set

README.md, after:

# Python Job Web Crawler

Looking for work stinks. Scouring websites for job postings is time-consuming and repetitive. This Python-based web crawler is designed to visit a list of specified online career pages that and search for specific keywords, in my case, for front-end related jobs.

This web crawler was developed with ChatGPT, with prompts and guidance provided by me.

note: This script is not perfect. Confirm that it works on your list of urls by first using keywords that do appear on the sites you're searching.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Python3: https://www.python.org/downloads/
- Google Chrome
- ChromeDriver: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/chromedriver/get-started

### Installation
Clone the repo and navigate into the directory:

```
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/job-keyword-web-crawler.git
cd job-keyword-web-crawler
```

Install the necessary Python libraries:
```
pip3 install selenium webdriver_manager beautifulsoup4
```

### Create careerPages.py
The list of career pages to visit is stored in `careerPages.py`.
Create a file named `careerPages.py` in the same directory as your script. 

```
touch careerPages.py
```

This file contain the list of websites you want to crawl. 

Below is a sample `careerPages.py`. Replace the placeholder urls with your own list.

```
careerPages = [
    'https://great-company.com/careers',
    'https://we-value-work-life-balance.com/jobs',
    'https://not-making-the-world-a-worse-place.com/joinus',
    'https:/bird-watching-and-forest-bathing.com/openings'
    # Add more websites as needed
]
```

If you'd like to keep your list of career pages to yourself, confirm that the file has been added to your `.gitignore` to prevent it from being included in version control.

## Running the Script

Ensure your 'chromedriver' is running.
To run chromedriver directly from the command line, follow these steps:

Locate chromedriver:
webdriver-manager downloads chromedriver to a specific directory. By default, it's usually stored in your home directory under .wdm.

Navigate to the directory:
Open your terminal and navigate to the directory containing the chromedriver executable (the file path below is an example only).

Ensure the chromedriver file has executable permissions. You can set the correct permissions using the chmod command.
```
chmod +x chromedriver
```

Execute the chromedriver executable directly from the terminal.
```
./chromedriver
```

Now that the chromedriver is running, using the terminal, run the script:

```
python3 python-job-crawler.py
```
The script will start and print messages indicating the progress, including which websites were crawled and whether any keywords were found.
